home/ivp-planning/README.md, before:

---
title: iVP Planning
description: Your real-time 2D/3D/VR planning software for industrial production plants and facilities.
---

![iVP Planning](../../.gitbook/assets/planning_icon.png)

iVP Planning is the core of the intelligent Virtual Platform. It offers a simple, immediate representation and visualization of your machine setups, facility concepts or production plants in 2D/3D and VR. The application is intuitive, visually appealing and enables even untrained persons low-threshold access. It allows you direct planning on-site, with the customer and impresses with an unprecedented degree of flexibility and speed.

The following pages will guide you through the main concepts of the software and will introduce you to some best practices and hints for effectively making use of iVP Planning to speed up your design process.

## Tutorial videos

In addition to our Helpdesk we set up a YouTube Channel where we regularly publish tutorials, feature demonstrations and release information.

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLlzoGkRUR67houzn5F5ejD3R-kQrDcps5" %}
iVP Planning Tutorial Playlist
{% endembed %}

Commit message:

update ivp planning main page. move content of former general page to the main page of planning. delete general page

home/ivp-planning/README.md, after:

---
title: iVP Planning
description: Your real-time 2D/3D/VR planning software for industrial production plants and facilities.
---

![iVP Planning](../../.gitbook/assets/planning_icon.png)

## Introduction

iVP Planning is the multi user virtual collaboration software for effective Building Information Modeling (BIM). Executing a project with team members from different parts of the world can be challenging and sometimes even frustrating. iVP Planning was created to eliminate the distance factor and enhance effective project execution, result evaluation and work efficiency.

iVP Planning is the core of the intelligent Virtual Platform. It offers a simple, immediate representation and visualization of your machine setups, facility concepts or production plants in 2D/3D and VR. The application is intuitive, visually appealing and enables even untrained persons low-threshold access. It allows you direct planning on-site, with the customer and impresses with an unprecedented degree of flexibility and speed.

The following pages will guide you through the main concepts of the software and will introduce you to some best practices and hints for effectively making use of iVP Planning to speed up your design process.

## Features

__Effective Planning__   
iVP Planning provides the tools you need to plan large scale projects in real time. Whether machines, furnishings, rooms, or other products, this BIM software supplies you with a library of 3D models that you have previously defined making the entire planning process easy.

__Enhanced Visualization__   
iVP Planning offers you the opportunity to execute your virtual plan using different 2D and 3D inspectors. To facilitate this process you get to experience and evaluate your project in a virtual 2D/3D/VR environment and check whether the project corresponds precisely with what you imagined.

__Easy Evaluation__   
With iVP Planning you can evaluate the feasibility and scale of your project by getting a real-time view of every aspect, making it easy to identify and fix flaws or replace various products and parts that might not be useful in the project.

__Project Collaboration__   
iVP Planning offers you the chance to collaborate with your team and clients, discuss and make modifications to your project virtually in 3D/VR/AR, no matter the location of the team members.

__Multi 3D Library__   
iVP Planning offers you the possibility of an unlimited library of 3D models to choose from. Alongside a synchronized asset library with 3D models specifically created by iVP for your business you can extend your asset database by importing your own models.

### Our mission

iVP Planning is a virtual planning and collaborative software designed with the focus of creating an intuitive and easy to use tool to assist architects, project managers, planners, investors and clients to achieve the best possible outcome for their projects. It helps architectural stakeholders to collaborate and plan projects down to the finest detail, no matter their physical locations. Tackling large scale projects is challenging, especially when many stakeholders are involved. Communication is always a problem leading to increased downtime and the inability to achieve the best results.

iVP Planning solves this problem by simplifying complex tasks and providing a platform where project stakeholders can collaborate in real-time with automated direct 2D/3D/VR/AR visualization. With iVP Planning architects, planners, clients, and investors can achieve faster planning, visualization, collaboration, and evaluation, which results in increased project efficiency and stakeholders' satisfaction.

## Tutorial videos

In addition to our Helpdesk we set up a YouTube Channel where we regularly publish tutorials, feature demonstrations and release information.

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLlzoGkRUR67houzn5F5ejD3R-kQrDcps5" %}
iVP Planning Tutorial Playlist
{% endembed %}
