home/ivp-planning/user-interface/the-2d-panel.md, before:

# 2D-Panel

The 2D-Panel acts as planning area where you can [place](../machines/first-steps-with-3d-object.md), [move](../machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md), [scale and rotate](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md) machines and objects as if you would work with a traditional floor plan on paper.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_UI\_2D\_panel.jpg)

## The toolbar of the 2D-Panel:

The toolbar is located at the top of the panel and contains several buttons that give you quick access to 2D-specific functions and settings.

|                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mouse\_tool.jpg)                  | Switches to a mode that lets you drag and drop machines and objects; if the mouse mode is active, the icon will appear blue                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_path\_tool.jpg)                   | Switches to the [path tool mode](../advanced-tools/path-tool.md) which allows you to draw [measurements](../advanced-tools/path-tool.md#measurements), [fences](../advanced-tools/fence-tool.md) and [rooms](../advanced-tools/the-room-tool.md); if the path tool mode is active, the icon will appear blue |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_copy.jpg)                         | [Copies ](../machines/copy-and-delete-objects.md#copy-objects)the selected object(s) in a specified direction                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_multi-copyl.jpg)                  | [Multi-copies](../machines/copy-and-delete-objects.md#multi-copy-objects) the selected object(s) according to definable parameters                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_redo.jpg)                         | Rotates the selected object(s) clockwise by a fixed degree (the degree can be adjusted in the [settings panel](settings-panel.md#global-settings))                                                                                                                                                           |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_3D\_rotate.jpg)                   | Rotates the selected object(s) anti-clockwise by a fixed degree (the degree can be adjusted in the [settings panel](settings-panel.md#global-settings))                                                                                                                                                      |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_delete.jpg)                       | [Deletes](../machines/copy-and-delete-objects.md#delete-objects) the selected object(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mirror\_vertically.jpg)           | [Mirrors ](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#mirror-objects)the selected objects(s) vertically                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mirror\_horizontally.jpg)         | [Mirrors ](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#mirror-objects)the selected object(s) horizontally                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_color\_picker.jpg)                | Highlights the selected object(s) by [coloring](../machines/highlighting-objects.md#coloring-objects) them                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mouse\_coordinates\_on\_off.jpg)  | Shows or hides the [mouse coordinates](the-grid.md#mouse-coordinates) in the top left corner of the panel                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_focus\_on\_selected\_machine.jpg) | Moves the cameras of the 2D- and the [3D-panel](the-3d-panel.md) so that they focus on the selected object(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_reference\_point.jpg)             | Sets the virtual zero / the reference point of the [grid](the-grid.md) and the [coordinate system](the-grid.md)                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_grid\_on\_off.jpg)                | [Toggles the visibility of the grid](the-grid.md#displaying-and-hiding-the-grid)                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_animations\_on\_off.jpg)          | Toggles all [animations ](../machines/animations.md)globally without overwriting the animation values set for                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_imported\_pdf\_on\_off.jpg)       | Toggles the visibility of the [imported PDF floor plan](../getting-started/importing-pdfs.md)                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

## Navigation in the the 2D-Panel:

To change the visible area, you can move the camera by holding down the **middle mouse button**. The zoom level can be adjusted by using the **mouse wheel**.

Commit message:

Markup fixes (#13)
* fixes 2d-panel.md, fixes markup-tool.md, normalizing of icons (size, cropping)
* added missing icon for 2d-panel

---------

Co-authored-by: sandroid <sandroid@posteo.net>

home/ivp-planning/user-interface/the-2d-panel.md, after:

# 2D-Panel

The 2D-Panel acts as planning area where you can [place](../machines/first-steps-with-3d-object.md), [move](../machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md), [scale and rotate](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md) machines and objects as if you would work with a traditional floor plan on paper.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_UI\_2D\_panel.jpg)

## The toolbar of the 2D-Panel:

The toolbar is located at the top of the panel and contains several buttons that give you quick access to 2D-specific functions and settings.

|                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mouse\_tool.jpg)                  | Switches to a mode that lets you drag and drop machines and objects; if the mouse mode is active, the icon will appear blue                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_path\_tool.jpg)                   | Switches to the [path tool mode](../advanced-tools/path-tool.md) which allows you to draw [measurements](../advanced-tools/path-tool.md#measurements), [fences](../advanced-tools/fence-tool.md) and [rooms](../advanced-tools/the-room-tool.md); if the path tool mode is active, the icon will appear blue |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_markup.jpg)                       | Switches to the [markup tool mode](../machines/copy-and-delete-objects.md#copy-objects)which allows you to place markups to annotate issues or highlight                                                                                                                                                     |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_copy.jpg)                         | [Copies ](../machines/copy-and-delete-objects.md#copy-objects)the selected object(s) in a specified direction                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_multi-copyl.jpg)                  | [Multi-copies](../machines/copy-and-delete-objects.md#multi-copy-objects) the selected object(s) according to definable parameters                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_redo.jpg)                         | Rotates the selected object(s) clockwise by a fixed degree (the degree can be adjusted in the [settings panel](settings-panel.md#global-settings))                                                                                                                                                           |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_3D\_rotate.jpg)                   | Rotates the selected object(s) anti-clockwise by a fixed degree (the degree can be adjusted in the [settings panel](settings-panel.md#global-settings))                                                                                                                                                      |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_delete.jpg)                       | [Deletes](../machines/copy-and-delete-objects.md#delete-objects) the selected object(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mirror\_vertically.jpg)           | [Mirrors ](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#mirror-objects)the selected objects(s) vertically                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mirror\_horizontally.jpg)         | [Mirrors ](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#mirror-objects)the selected object(s) horizontally                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_color\_picker.jpg)                | Highlights the selected object(s) by [coloring](../machines/highlighting-objects.md#coloring-objects) them                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_mouse\_coordinates\_on\_off.jpg)  | Shows or hides the [mouse coordinates](the-grid.md#mouse-coordinates) in the top left corner of the panel                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_focus\_on\_selected\_machine.jpg) | Moves the cameras of the 2D- and the [3D-panel](the-3d-panel.md) so that they focus on the selected object(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_reference\_point.jpg)             | Sets the virtual zero / the reference point of the [grid](the-grid.md) and the [coordinate system](the-grid.md)                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_grid\_on\_off.jpg)                | [Toggles the visibility of the grid](the-grid.md#displaying-and-hiding-the-grid)                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_animations\_on\_off.jpg)          | Toggles all [animations ](../machines/animations.md)globally without overwriting the animation values set for                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_icon\_imported\_pdf\_on\_off.jpg)       | Toggles the visibility of the [imported PDF floor plan](../getting-started/importing-pdfs.md)                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

## Navigation in the the 2D-Panel:

To change the visible area, you can move the camera by holding down the **middle mouse button**. The zoom level can be adjusted by using the **mouse wheel**.
