home/ivp-planning/user-interface/the-3d-panel.md, before:

---
description: >-
  The 3D-Panel acts primarily as visualization area. Like in the 2D-panel it
  where you can place, move, scale and rotate machines and objects as if you
  would work with a traditional floor plan on paper.
---

# 3D-Panel

The 3D-Panel acts as a visualization area where you can work in a three dimensional representation of the room or factory. It is possible to [place](../machines/first-steps-with-3d-object.md), [move](../machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md), [scale and rotate](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md) machines and objects like in the 2D-panel. However, the 3D-panel also offers functions to take [screenshots](../advanced-tools/creating-screenshots.md) or to work with [virtual cameras](virtual-camera-panel.md) to [record videos](../advanced-tools/virtual-cameras.md).

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_UserInterface_3DPanel_3DPanel.png)

## The toolbar of the 3D-Panel:

The toolbar is located at the top of the panel and contains several buttons that give you quick access to 3D-specific functions and settings.

|      |      |
| :--- | :--- |
| ![Toggle Camera Mode](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_toggle_camera_mode.png) | Switches to a camera mode. |
| ![Selected View](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_selected_view.png) | Allows you to switch between different [virtual cameras](../advanced-tools/virtual-cameras.md). |
| ![3D Move](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_3d_move.png) | Switches to a mode that makes it possible to [move](../machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md) the selected object(s) by using the mouse; if the mode is active, the background of the icon becomes dark. |
| ![3D Rotate](<../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_3d_rotate.png>) | Switches to a mode that makes it possible to [rotate](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#rotate-objects) the selected object(s); if the mode is active, the background of the icon becomes dark. |
| ![3D Scale](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_3d_scale.png) | Switches to a mode that makes it possible to [scale](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#scale-objects) the selected object(s); if the mode is active, the background of the icon becomes dark. |
| ![Global Space](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_global_space.png) | ?|
| ![FOV](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_fov.png) | ?|
| ![Reset the Camera View](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_reset_the_camera_view.png) | ?|
| ![Add Current Camera Viewpoint](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_add_current_camera_viewpoint.png) | ?|
| ![Update Selected Camera](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_update_selected_camera.png) | ?|
| ![Aspect Ratio](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_2d_panel_aspect_ratio.png)   | ?|
| ![Create Screenshot](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_2d_panel_create_screenshot.png) | Takes a [screenshot](../advanced-tools/creating-screenshots.md) of the 3D-view. |
| ![Skybox](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_skybox.png) | ?|

Commit message:

edit the 3D panel: new explanations for all tools. delete one duplicat image.

home/ivp-planning/user-interface/the-3d-panel.md, after:

---
description: >-
  The 3D View gives you a three-dimensional representation of your concept. Analogue to the 2D View you can perform several transformations to edit the setup of your objects.
---

# 3D View

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_UserInterface_3DPanel_3DPanel.png)

It is possible to [place](../machines/first-steps-with-3d-object.md), [move](../machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md), [scale and rotate](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md) machines and objects like in the 2D View. Furthermore the 3D View offers functions to take [screenshots](../advanced-tools/creating-screenshots.md) or to work with [virtual cameras](virtual-camera-panel.md) for [recording videos](../advanced-tools/virtual-cameras.md).

## The toolbar of the 3D View

The toolbar is located at the top of the 3D View providing you with quick access to the tools for transformations and functionalities specific to the 3D View.

|      |      |
| :--- | :--- |
| ![Toggle Camera Mode](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_toggle_camera_mode.png) | __Toggle camera mode__ lets you lock/unlock your viewpoint to a selected virtual camera. |
| ![Selected View](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_selected_view.png) | __Selected View__ allows you to switch between the [virtual cameras](../advanced-tools/virtual-cameras.md) of your scene. |
| ![3D Move](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_3d_move.png) | __3D Move__ enables the mode to [move](../machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md) the selected object(s) in three-dimensional space. |
| ![3D Rotate](<../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_3d_rotate.png>) | __3D Rotate__ enables the mode to [rotate](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#rotate-objects) the selected object(s) in three-dimensional space. |
| ![3D Scale](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_3d_scale.png) | __3D Scale__ enables the mode to [scale](../machines/scale-and-rotate-objects.md#scale-objects) the selected object(s) in three-dimensional space. |
| ![Global Space](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_global_space.png) | __Global Space__ toggles the 3D transformations being applied along either the global space (coordinates) of the scene or the local space (orientation) of the object. |
| ![FOV](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_fov.png) | __FOV__ opens a slider to set the general field of view for your 3D View. |
| ![Reset the Camera View](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_reset_the_camera_view.png) | __Resets the camera view__ sets the current 3D View to its default position and orientation. |
| ![Add Current Camera Viewpoint](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_add_current_camera_viewpoint.png) | __Add current camera viewpoint__ creates a virtual camera with default settings from your current 3D View and adds it to the [Hierarchy Panel](./hierarchy-panel.md). |
| ![Update Selected Camera](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_update_selected_camera.png) | __Update selected Camera__ applies the current position and orientation of your 3D View to the virtual camera selected in the [Hierarchy Panel](./hierarchy-panel.md). |
| ![Aspect Ratio](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_2d_panel_aspect_ratio.png) | __Aspect ratio__ lets you choose between a set of common aspect ratios for your 3D View. |
| ![Create Screenshot](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_2d_panel_create_screenshot.png) | __Create screenshot__ lets you take a [screenshot](../advanced-tools/creating-screenshots.md) of your current 3D View. |
| ![Skybox](../../../.gitbook/assets/planning_3d_panel_skybox.png) | __Skybox__  |
