home/ivp-planning/machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md, before:

# Select Objects

To interact with objects it is necessary to select them first. Only then it is possible to [move](move-objects.md), [rotate](scale-and-rotate-objects.md), [scale ](scale-objects.md)or [customize ](customizable-machines.md)them. To learn more we also recommend to have a look at this iVP YouTube Tutorial.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/7Vprataxi08?t=53" %}
How to select and move objects (german)
{% endembed %}

## Selecting Objects in the 2D- and 3D-panel:

To select an object in the [2D-](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md) or [3D-panel](../user-interface/the-3d-panel.md) it is sufficient to **click on it**.

{% hint style="info" %}
It is also possible to select multiple objects by holding the **Ctrl** key while clicking on them one after another.
{% endhint %}

In the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md), you can identify selected objects by a blueish tint and a frame around the objects that displays their x- and y-size. Parts of this frame can also be used to [move](move-objects.md#moving-objects-in-the-2d-panel), [rotate ](scale-and-rotate-objects.md#rotating-objects-in-the-2d-panel)or [scale ](scale-objects.md#scaling-objects-in-the-2d-panel)objects in 2D.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_guide\_select\_objects\_2D.jpg)

In the [3D-Panel](../user-interface/the-3d-panel.md), selected Objects will have blue angle brackets around them which form a virtual box. Additionally, a handle will appear in their geometric center which can also be used to [move](move-objects.md#moving-objects-in-the-3d-panel), [rotate ](scale-and-rotate-objects.md#rotating-objects-in-the-3d-panel)or [scale ](scale-objects.md#scaling-objects-in-the-3d-panel)objects in 3D.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_guide\_select\_objects\_3D.jpg)

## Selecting objects via the machine list panel:

Every object in the scene also has an entry in the [machine list panel](../user-interface/the-machine-list.md). You can select objects by **clicking on their entry**. The entries of selected machines can be identified by their blue tint.

{% hint style="info" %}
It is also possible to select multiple objects by holding the **Ctrl** key while clicking on them one after another. You can also use the **Shift** key to select a range of entries at once.
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_guide\_select\_objects\_machine\_list\_panel.jpg)

Commit message:

Updated selecting and moving page (#34)
* replaced old screenshots in the selecting and moving section and brought text up to date
* made grammatical changes and rewrote some descriptions to be easier to understand
* added additive selection section
* updated headers and texts to be easier to understand

---------

Co-authored-by: Sandro Forster <sandroid@posteo.net>

home/ivp-planning/machines/selecting-and-moving-objects.md, after:

# Select Objects

To interact with objects it is necessary to select them first. Only then it is possible to [move](move-objects.md), [rotate](scale-and-rotate-objects.md), [scale](scale-objects.md) or [customize](customizable-machines.md) them. To learn more we also recommend to have a look at this iVP YouTube Tutorial.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/7Vprataxi08?t=53" %}
How to select and move objects (german)
{% endembed %}

## Selecting Objects in the 2D- and 3D-panel:

To select an object in the [2D-](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md) or [3D-panel](../user-interface/the-3d-panel.md) it is sufficient to **click on it**.  


In the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md), you can identify selected objects by a blue tint and a white frame around the objects that displays their x- and y-size. Parts of this frame can also be used to [move](move-objects.md#moving-objects-in-the-2d-panel) and [rotate](scale-and-rotate-objects.md#rotating-objects-in-the-2d-panel) objects in 2D.


![](../../../.gitbook/assets/2d-select-highlighted.png)

In the [3D-Panel](../user-interface/the-3d-panel.md), selected Objects will have blue angle brackets around them which form a virtual box. Additionally, a handle will appear in their geometric center which can also be used to [move](move-objects.md#moving-objects-in-the-3d-panel), [rotate](scale-and-rotate-objects.md#rotating-objects-in-the-3d-panel) or [scale](scale-objects.md#scaling-objects-in-the-3d-panel) objects in 3D.


![](../../../.gitbook/assets/3d-select-brackets.png)

## Selecting objects via the hierarchy

Every object in the scene also has an entry in the [hierarchy](../user-interface/the-machine-list.md). You can select objects by **clicking on their entry**. The entries of selected machines can be identified by their blue tint.

{% hint style="info" %}
It is also possible to select multiple objects by holding the **Ctrl** key while clicking on them one after another. You can also use the **Shift** key to select a range of entries at once.
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/2d-select-hierarchy.png)  

## Box Selection

It is also possible to select multiple objects by holding down the **Ctrl** button and dragging your mouse over the objects you want to select.    
    
![](../../../.gitbook/assets/3d-box-selection.png)  

### Additive and Subtractive Selection
  
 When using the Box selection, you can also select objects additively by holding **Ctrl** + **Shift** and dragging your mouse over the object you wish to select.


 Similarly, it is possible to remove objects from your current selection by holding **Ctrl** + **Alt**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/select-additive.png)
