home/ivp-planning/advanced-tools/fence-tool.md, before:

# Fence Tool

The fence tool can be used to quickly generate fences without the need to work with single fence elements or manual corrections after course changes.

{% hint style="info" %}
The fence tool is a special variant of the [path tool](path-tool.md). We recommend to read the [path tool ](path-tool.md)section of this manual first.
{% endhint %}

## Creating a fence:

Fences are based on measurements which can be created with the [path tool](path-tool.md). Afterwards, every path can be turned into a fence by **changing the 'Type' into Fence** that is displayed under 'Measurements' as soon as a path is [selected](path-tool.md#path-selection-and-editing).

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_create\_fence.jpg)

Alternatively, it is possible to **right click** on the desired path, followed by a **click on "Fence"**. This will convert the path into a fence as well.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_right\_click\_menu\_to\_fence.jpg)

Fences can be identified by the fence icon that is displayed next to their name.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_fence\_icon.jpg)

## Editing the fence course:

The course of a fence can be changed by [editing the path](path-tool.md#path-selection-and-editing) the fence is based on. After length or direction changes the fence model will automatically be adjusted to the new course.

## Doors and pass-troughs:

It is possible to add doors or pass-troughs to fences which will automatically be adapted when the fence changes in length or direction. To add one, right **click on a path point** of a selected path in the [2D View](../user-interface/the-2d-view.md) and choose **"Door"** or **"Pass-through"** from the appearing menu.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_fence\_right\_click\_point\_options.jpg)

Doors are always placed on the right side of the path point and have a fixed width.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_fence\_door.jpg)

Pass-troughs have a flexible width, they always span from the selected point to the next point on its right side.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_fence\_passthrough.jpg)

## Fence types and materials:

It is possible to change the material of the fence. To do so, **choose an option from the list**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_create\_fence.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_fence\_tool\_fence\_types.jpg)

Commit message:

Update Advanced Tools: fence Tool
Update Fence Tool:
New Screenshots.
The way to use the tool has changed:
Inserting the new fence modules e.g. light barrier

home/ivp-planning/advanced-tools/fence-tool.md, after:

# Fence Tool

The fence tool can be used to quickly generate fences without the need to work with single fence elements or manual corrections after course changes.

{% hint style="info" %}
The fence tool is a special variant of the [path tool](path-tool.md). We recommend to read the [path tool ](path-tool.md)section of this manual first.
{% endhint %}

## Creating a Fence

Fences are created based on measurements defined using the [Path Tool](path-tool.md).  
To convert a path into a fence, first [select the path](path-tool.md#path-selection-and-editing).  
Then open the [Properties Panel](../user-interface/the-properties-panel.md), expand the **Measurement** section, and set the **Type** to **Fence**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_AdvancedTools_FenceTool_PropertiesPanel.png)

Alternatively, you can convert a path into a fence by **right-clicking** on the desired path in the [Hierarchy Panel](../user-interface/hierarchy-panel.md). Then **hover over "Convert path"** and select **"Fence"** from the submenu.  
This will also convert the path into a fence.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_AdvancedTools_FenceTool_HierarchyPanel.png)

## Editing the fence course:

The course of a fence can be changed by [editing the path](path-tool.md#path-selection-and-editing) the fence is based on. After length or direction changes the fence model will automatically be adjusted to the new course.

## Doors and pass-troughs:

It is possible to add doors or pass-troughs to fences which will automatically be adapted when the fence changes in length or direction. To place one, **right-click** on a **path point** of a selected path in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md), go to **Place Module**, and choose **"Door"**, **"Pass-through"**, **Fence** or **Light Barrier** from the menu.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_AdvancedTools_FenceTool_2DPanel_Module.png)

Doors are always placed on the right side of the path point and have a fixed width.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_AdvancedTools_FenceTool_ModulDoor.png)

Pass-troughs have a flexible width, they always span from the selected point to the next point on its right side.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_AdvancedTools_FenceTool_ModulPassthrough.png)

## Fence types and materials:

To change the material of a fence, select the fence object and go to the [Properties Panel](../user-interface/the-properties-panel.md). Scroll down to the **Fence** section and open the **Material** dropdown. You can choose between **Wire Mesh** and **Glass**. The selected material will be instantly applied to the fence.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP_Planning_AdvancedTools_FenceTool_MaterialGlass)
