home/ivp-planning/advanced-tools/path-tool.md, before:

# Path Tool

The path tool is an easy but very powerful function of iVP that can be used for quick measurements as well as advanced highlighting. In its more specific forms - the[ fence tool ](fence-tool.md)respective [room tool ](the-room-tool.md)- it can also be used for the creation of complex [fences ](fence-tool.md#creating-a-fence)and [rooms ](the-room-tool.md#creating-a-room)in minutes.

## Path creation, lengths and angles:

The path tool can be activated by clicking the path icon in the [2D-panel toolbar](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md#the-toolbar-of-the-2d-panel).

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_guide\_path\_tool\_menu\_icon.jpg)

As soon as the tool is active, the icon will turn blue and a small path icon will follow the mouse button to remind you that you are in the path mode.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_guide\_path\_tool\_mouse\_icon.jpg)

To create a path, **left click on a position** in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md). A small circle will appear that marks the spot of the click and functions as first measurement point. When the mouse is moved after the click, a line will appear between the measurement point and the mouse pointer. To set a new measurement point it is sufficient to simply **left click on another position** in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md).

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_line.jpg)

During the creation process of the path, every line and every corner will automatically display its length or angle.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_angle.jpg)

To complete a path it is either possible to press **Enter** or **double click on the last measurement point** set. With its completion, the path will also be saved as a permanent object that can be adjusted or deleted via the [path panel](../user-interface/path-panel.md).

{% hint style="info" %}
If the path contains three or more measurement points, it will automatically be closed after creation (the first and the last measurement points will be connected automatically).
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

The path creation can be cancelled at any time by pressing the **Escape key**. This can be used to quickly measure distances or angles without creating a permanent path.

## Path selection and editing:

Existing paths can be selected by **clicking on the path name** in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md) **or the entry** **of the path** in the[ path panel](../user-interface/path-panel.md).

{% hint style="info" %}
It is not possible to select paths by clicking on the path itself - this limitation is necessary to prevent unwanted modifications when working with overlapping paths.
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_path\_selection.jpg)

To add new points to a selected path, **right click on a line** and subsequently click on **"Add Point"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_line\_menu.jpg)

To delete a point, **right click on the point** and then click on **"Delete"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_point\_menu.jpg)

To move points it is enough to **drag them** with the **left mouse button**.

## Measurement display options:

The length and angle information of each path can be turned on and off individually by **right clicking on them** and choosing **"Length"** respectively **"Angle"** from the appearing menus.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_line\_menu.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_point\_menu.jpg)

Alternatively it is possible to hide or show all lengths or angles by **right clicking** on the path entry in the [path panel](../user-interface/path-panel.md) and subsequently clicking on **"Edge Lengths"** or **"Angles"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_right\_click\_menu\_measurements.jpg)

## Area measurements:

Besides lengths and angles, areas are measurable as well. To activate this option, **right click on the path entry** in the path panel, followed by a click in **"Area"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_right\_click\_menu\_area.jpg)

The path will now be filled with a stripe pattern and an area size will be displayed in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md) above the path name.

{% hint style="info" %}
The "Area" option also affects the path in 3D-panel so that it can be used to highlight specific areas.
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_area.jpg)

## Path renaming:

Paths can be renamed at any time via the [path panel](../user-interface/path-panel.md). After **right clicking on the desired path** and choosing **"Rename"**, the name of the path will get a blue square as background. It can now be changed by **entering the new name**, followed by the **Enter**.

{% hint style="info" %}
There are no limitations concerning the name length of a path or concerning special characters like the umlauts "ä", "ü" and "ö".
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_right\_click\_menu\_rename.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_rename.jpg)

## Path coloring:

Commit message:

Removed path panel (#21)
* remove: path panel, references to path panel
* changed/fixed wordings

home/ivp-planning/advanced-tools/path-tool.md, after:

# Path Tool

The path tool is an easy but very powerful function of iVP that can be used for quick measurements as well as advanced highlighting. In its more specific forms - the[ fence tool ](fence-tool.md)respective [room tool ](the-room-tool.md)- it can also be used for the creation of complex [fences ](fence-tool.md#creating-a-fence)and [rooms ](the-room-tool.md#creating-a-room)in minutes.

## Path creation, lengths and angles:

The path tool can be activated by clicking the path icon in the [2D-panel toolbar](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md#the-toolbar-of-the-2d-panel).

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_guide\_path\_tool\_menu\_icon.jpg)

As soon as the tool is active, the icon will turn blue and a small path icon will follow the mouse button to remind you that you are in the path mode.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_guide\_path\_tool\_mouse\_icon.jpg)

To create a path, **left click on a position** in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md). A small circle will appear that marks the spot of the click and functions as first measurement point. When the mouse is moved after the click, a line will appear between the measurement point and the mouse pointer. To set a new measurement point it is sufficient to simply **left click on another position** in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md).

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_line.jpg)

During the creation process of the path, every line and every corner will automatically display its length or angle.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_angle.jpg)

To complete a path it is either possible to press **Enter** or **double click on the last measurement point** set. With its completion, the path will also be saved as a permanent object that can be adjusted or deleted.

{% hint style="info" %}
If the path contains three or more measurement points, it will automatically be closed after creation (the first and the last measurement points will be connected automatically).
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

The path creation can be cancelled at any time by pressing the **Escape key**. This can be used to quickly measure distances or angles without creating a permanent path.

## Path selection and editing:

Existing paths can be selected by **clicking on the path name** in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md).

{% hint style="info" %}
It is not possible to select paths by clicking on the path itself - this limitation is necessary to prevent unwanted modifications when working with overlapping paths.
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_path\_selection.jpg)

To add new points to a selected path, **right click on a line** and subsequently click on **"Add Point"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_line\_menu.jpg)

To delete a point, **right click on the point** and then click on **"Delete"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_point\_menu.jpg)

To move points it is enough to **drag them** with the **left mouse button**.

## Measurement display options:

The length and angle information of each path can be turned on and off individually by **right clicking on them** and choosing **"Length"** respectively **"Angle"** from the appearing menus.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_line\_menu.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_right\_click\_point\_menu.jpg)

Alternatively it is possible to hide or show all lengths or angles by changing the entry in the measurements of the [properties](../user-interface/the-info-panel.md) and subsequently clicking on **"Edge Lengths"** or **"Angles"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_right\_click\_menu\_measurements.jpg)

## Area measurements:

Besides lengths and angles, areas are measurable as well. To activate this option, **check the 'Area' box** under the measurements foldout of the [properties](../user-interface/the-info-panel.md), followed by a click in **"Area"**.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_right\_click\_menu\_area.jpg)

The path will now be filled with a stripe pattern and an area size will be displayed in the [2D-panel](../user-interface/the-2d-panel.md) above the path name.

{% hint style="info" %}
The "Area" option also affects the path in 3D-panel so that it can be used to highlight specific areas.
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_area.jpg)

## Path renaming:

Paths can be [renamed](/the-tree-view/renaming-objects-and-folders) at any time just like any other object.

{% hint style="info" %}
There are no limitations concerning the name length of a path or concerning special characters like the umlauts "ä", "ü" and "ö".
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_draw\_path\_path\_panel.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_right\_click\_menu\_rename.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_path\_tool\_list\_rename.jpg)

## Path coloring:
