home/ivp-customer-service/track-requests.md, before:

# Track a Feature Request's Status

A status is assigned to each feature request. You can see a feature's status in the request list or the detailed view. Please read the section on [viewing requests](view-feature-requests.md) to learn more.

> **Note:** Are you particularly interested in a feature and would like to be kept up to date? Select the button with the bell in the detailed view to switch e-mail notifications on or off.

A feature request can have the following states:

**Open**  
The request has been created and is waiting for approval from a project owner. 

**Authorized**  
The request is approved! The functionality will now be defined and prepared for development. 

**Declined**  
The request has been rejected. Reasons for rejection can be duplication with another request, insufficient demand, or too high development effort.  

**Selected for Development**  
The feature is ready for implementation! It is in the queue. 

**In Development**  
We have started working on this feature. Just a little more patience! 

**Released**  
The feature has been implemented and published. It is now available to all iVP users.

Commit message:

Add how-to bug report to customer service, text correction planning bug reports, remove faq

home/ivp-customer-service/track-requests.md, after:

# Tracking Entries

A status is assigned to each request. You can see this status in the request list or the detailed view. Please read the section on [viewing requests](view-feature-requests.md) to learn more.

> **Note:** Are you particularly interested in a feature or bug and would like to be kept up to date? Select the button with the bell in the detailed view to switch e-mail notifications on or off.

## Feature Requests
A feature request can have the following states:

**Open**  
The request has been created and is waiting for approval from a project owner. 

**Authorized**  
The request is approved! The functionality will now be defined and prepared for development. 

**Declined**  
The request has been rejected. Reasons for rejection can be duplication with another request, insufficient demand, or too high development effort.  

**Selected for Development**  
The feature is ready for implementation! It is in the queue. 

**In Development**  
We have started working on this feature. Just a little more patience! 

**Released**  
The feature has been implemented and published. It is now available to all iVP users. 

## Bug Reports
A bug report can have the following states:

**Pending**  
We have received the message and are waiting for it to be processed. The priority of the error determines the waiting time until processing.

**Won't Do**  
We won't follow up on bugs with this status. Reasons could be duplications with other reports or an issue regarding a deprecated feature.

**Under Investigation**  
Our developers are investigating the bug to identify the problem. Pay special attention to comments from developers when you see a message with this status. They may be able to help us.
Under certain circumstances, a direct conversation with our team can also be helpful!

**In Work**  
We are in the process of fixing the bug. A little more patience!

**Resolved**  
We have fixed the bug and updated iVP!
