home/ivp-customer-service/view-feature-requests.md, before:

# View Feature Requests

## Navigate to the Request List

To view inquiries in the [iVP CUstomer Service](README.md) portal, select the requests button in the top right corner. You can access various lists of inquiries via this button: 

![Find Requests](../../.gitbook/assets/ViewRequests_1.png)

**Created by me**  
Here you will find all your requests.  

**Approvals**  
This category only appears if you are a project owner. Here you will find all requests waiting for your approval. 

**iVP Key User / All**  
Under these entries, you will find all collected requests. 

After this selection, you will get to a list view of the corresponding requests. Here you can also search for requests or filter different parameters.  

## View Request Details

With a click on the list entry, you can call up the content of the request. Here you can read the description, view attachments, or read and write comments. If the description and attachments are not immediately displayed, you can show them by clicking on "Show details". 

![Request details](../../.gitbook/assets/ViewRequests_2.png)

Commit message:

Add how-to bug report to customer service, text correction planning bug reports, remove faq

home/ivp-customer-service/view-feature-requests.md, after:

# Viewing Service Entries

## Navigate to the Request List

To view inquiries in the [iVP CUstomer Service](README.md) portal, select the requests button in the top right corner. You can access various lists of inquiries via this button: 

![Find Requests](../../.gitbook/assets/ViewRequests_1.png)

**Created by me**  
Here you will find all your feature requests and bug reports.  

**Approvals**  
This category only appears if you are a project owner. Here you will find all features waiting for your approval. 

**iVP Key User / All**  
Under these entries, you will find all collected requests and reports. 

After the selection, you will get to a list view of the corresponding entries. Here you can also search for inquiries or filter different parameters.  

## View Request Details

With a click on the list item, you can call up the content of the entry. Here you can read the description, view attachments, or read and write comments. If the description and attachments are not immediately displayed, you can show them by clicking on "Show details". 

![Request details](../../.gitbook/assets/ViewRequests_2.png)
