home/ivp-planning/getting-started/moving-the-camera.md, before:

# Moving The Camera

iVPs user interface includes a [2D View](../user-interface/the-2d-view.md) and a [3D View](../user-interface/the-3d-view.md). In both of them, the camera perspective can be changed separately.

## Moving the camera in the 2D View:

To move the camera, **click and hold the middle mouse button** while hovering over the [2D View](../user-interface/the-2d-view.md). Now you can **move the mouse** to move the visible area.

## Moving the camera in the 3D View:

To move the camera, **click and hold the middle mouse button** while hovering over the [3D View](../user-interface/the-3d-view.md). Now you can **move the mouse** to move the visible area.

To turn the camera, **move the mouse** while holding the right mouse button. Additionally you can move the camera freely **while holding right mouse button** using [the buttons WASD and Q/E](../keyboard-shortcuts.md#3d-camera-control).

## Focusing on objects:

To focus on a selected object, press the "F" key. It will now be centered in both the [2D-](../user-interface/the-2d-view.md) and the [3D View](../user-interface/the-3d-view.md) as well as in the [hierarchy](../getting-started/moving-the-camera.md).

Commit message:

update the camera movement page for planning

home/ivp-planning/getting-started/moving-the-camera.md, after:

---
title: Move the Camera
description: How to move the camera in the 2D and 3D view.
---

The User Interface of iVP Planning includes a [2D View](../user-interface/the-2d-view.md) and a [3D View](../user-interface/the-3d-view.md). In both of them the camera perspective can be changed independently.

## General camera movement

To move the camera __click and hold the middle mouse button__ while hovering over either the [2D View](../user-interface/the-2d-view.md) or the [3D View](../user-interface/the-3d-view.md) and __move the mouse__ to adjust the views on your project.

To __zoom__ in or out use your __mousewheel__ while hovering over either the 2D View or the 3D View.

To __focus__ on a selected object press the __F__ key. It will now be centered in both the 2D View and the 3D View as well as in the [hierarchy](../getting-started/moving-the-camera.md).

## 3D View camera movement

To turn the camera to another direction __move the mouse__ while __holding the right mouse button__. Additionally you can __move the camera freely__ while __holding right mouse button__ and using the [WASD and Q/E keys](../keyboard-shortcuts.md#3d-camera-control) on your keyboard.
